CHALLENGES:
	Dog waste is the most common problem in the barangay right now . The abundancy of it make the streets and neighborhood stinky which causes an unnattractive and unhealthy place because of bacteria, students in the area are most affected
	because it makes the place not efficient for learning.
	 The barangay is doing their best to solve it by having a clean-up everyday and making sure that the owners are cleaning their dog's waste but there are owners that are not following rules and still don't care when the stool of their pets are left
	on the streets. Garbage that is thrown everywhere is the next problem adding the stinkiness and bacteria caused by the dog's waste it gets worse, for that the barangay has a solid-waste management act and also a clean-up everyday to make sure
	 the streets are clean. but with all the efforts of the barangay the problems still persists.


ACTION PLAN:
	To reduce the waste production on barangay Lopez Jaena the following action plans must be implemented:
		Clean-up drive - Since the clean up drive will be a community-based project, it will inspire and motivate 
				the environmental initiative of the people. This drive will include the following activities:
					-Removing litter from the public areas of the barangay, and even in the respective 
					houses of the residents.
					-Clearing illegal waste dumps that are usually heaped at street corners.
					-Placing trash cans around the barangay.
				 The objectives of the clean-up drive are the following:
				 	- To ensure a safe, clean, and healthy environment.
					- To promote environmental awareness
					- To eradicate diseases thay a dirty environment may bring to the community
					- To engange the residents of Barangay Lopez Jaena in long term environmental initiatives.
				 
		"Aso mo tali mo" - As per REPUBLIC ACT No. 9482 anyone who violates this ordinance will be fined 
					5OO PHP per violation.
					
		Seminar on how to take responsibility of your pet. - A seminar for all dog owners in the barangay will be held, they 			will be informed about their responsibilites as pet owners including the stated responsibilities in Section 5 of the 
		REPUBLIC ACT No. 9482:
			Sec. 5. Responsibilities of Pet Owner. - All Pet Owners shall be required to:
				(a) Have their Dog regularly vaccinated against Rabies and maintain a registration card which shall 					contain all vaccinations conducted on their Dog, for accurate record purposes.
				(b) Submit their Dogs for mandatory registration.
				(c) Maintain control over their Dog and not allow it to roam the streets or any Public Place without a 					leash.
				(d) Be a responsible Owner by providing their Dog with proper grooming, adequate food and clean shelter.
				(e) Within twenty-four (24) hours, report immediately any Dog biting incident to the Concerned Officials 				for investigation or for any appropriate action and place such Dog under observation by a government or 				private veterinarian.
				(f) Assist the Dog bite victim immediately and shoulder the medical expenses incurred and other 					incidental expenses relative to the victim’s injuries.

			
		
		Waste reduction and recycling - Since waste is a growing problem in the Barangay, educating the community on ways how to 						reduce their wastes will be a big help. The barangay will place a "recycling bin/zone"  						where residents of the barangay can drop, plastic bottles, papers, boxes or any other 						       recyclables. These recyclables can then be brought to a recycling center for them to be
					       repurposed. Residents will also be advised to ditch the plastic bags and start using eco 					       bags instead. Residents can also start composting, usually a large amount of what we 
					       throw in the trash could be composted. With just a bin and a small space, you are good to 
					       go. 
					       
		Posters/Slogans about community waste management - Posters/Slogans that will help motivate the residents of the 			community will be placed in different areas of the barangay.

		
	
	
	
